- [Instructor] Microservice Architectures have introduced
a fundamental shift that changes how developers build,
operate, and secure technical systems.
Before microservices many systems were built using a
three tier architecture that consisted
of a presentation layer that runs
in the browser, a logic tier that ran server side
and a database tier where information was stored.
In this architecture
the logic tier contains a set
of services that work together to provide the systems
business capabilities and data.
In a hypothetical e-commerce system
this might include services for business functions
like the product catalog, inventory, pricing,
shopping cart, and delivery.
In a monolith we develop, package and deploy
these business services
as a single executable, which allows them to communicate
in process to complete business functions.
On the contrary microservice
architectures separate the services
in a systems application tier
into separate components that are hosted
and executed independently of one another.
Since microservices execute
in their own process space, all communication
and collaboration between services occurs
over a network protocol, typically HTTP.
Access to a microservices data
and capabilities occur strictly
through a well-defined interface that is exposed
as a rest API.
Microservice architectures deliver a number
of benefits that are related
to their loose coupling and independence.
When a system is built using microservices
each service within the system can be developed
and maintained by a separate team.
The decoupled nature
of the services allows these teams
to isolate their development and avoid scheduled dependence.
Once a change to a service is ready
it can be least independent of the other services
in the system because microservices are autonomous.
The services are developed,
packaged and deployed separately from each other.
Eliminating the need to coordinate the timing
of a big bang deployment that releases
the entire system all at once.
The autonomous nature
of microservices also allows them
to be scaled independently.
If a specific service such
as the catalog service comes under heavy load
we can horizontally scale only
that service to meet the demand.
This allows us to efficiently allocate resources
such as CPU
and memory to where they are most needed in our system.
Finally, microservice architectures can be more resilient.
If a service within the distributed system begins to fail
microservices can implement several
fault tolerance strategies to keep the system intact.
One resiliency pattern is the circuit breaker pattern
which redirects traffic intended for a failing service
to another service that provides a basic
or default implementation of the service.
These characteristics differentiate
a microservice architecture
from the traditional three tier monolith
and will require it different
security strategies be applied to achieve confidentiality
integrity, and availability.